Overview:
DevCloud Core is a Terraform-based Infrastructure as Code (IaC) project designed to provision the foundational Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) resources required for a database development environment. The project automates the creation of networking, security, and access management components, providing a consistent and repeatable deployment process.

The infrastructure follows a modular Terraform design, making it easier to manage, maintain, and extend as requirements evolve. The deployed environment is intended to support database-related workloads while maintaining network segmentation and controlled access through OCI security features.

Key Features:
Automated OCI infrastructure deployment using Terraform
Dedicated compartment for database development resources
Virtual Cloud Network (VCN) deployment
Multiple private subnets across different availability domains
Service Gateway integration for private OCI service access
Route table configuration for internal and external connectivity
Network Security Group (NSG) creation and management
IAM policy configuration for DBA team access
Modular Terraform architecture for maintainability and scalability
Infrastructure Components

The project provisions the following core infrastructure components:

Compartment:
A dedicated OCI compartment is created to logically isolate and manage database development resources.

Networking:
Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)
Private subnets
Route tables
Service Gateway
Network Security Groups (NSGs)
Security
Network Security Groups for workload segmentation
Controlled access policies through OCI IAM
Private subnet architecture with no public IP assignment
Identity and Access Management

IAM policies are created to provide appropriate access permissions for database administration teams and related user groups.

Terraform Modules

The project is organized using reusable Terraform modules.

Module	Description
compartment	Creates OCI compartments
vcn	Creates Virtual Cloud Networks
subnet	Creates private subnets
routeTable	Creates route tables and routing rules
serviceGateway	Creates OCI Service Gateway
natGateway	Supports NAT Gateway deployment
nsgList	Creates Network Security Groups
nsgRules	Defines NSG security rules
groupPolicy	Creates IAM policies
Deployment Workflow

The typical deployment process consists of:

Configure OCI credentials.
Update Terraform variables.
Initialize Terraform.
Validate the configuration.
Review the execution plan.
Apply the infrastructure.

Terraform Commands:
terraform init
terraform validate
terraform plan
terraform apply

To remove deployed resources:

terraform destroy
Benefits of the Project

This Terraform solution provides several operational advantages:

Infrastructure consistency across environments
Reduced manual configuration effort
Faster provisioning of cloud resources
Improved maintainability through modular design
Version-controlled infrastructure changes
Repeatable deployments for development and testing environments
Security Considerations

The project follows several infrastructure security practices:

Private subnet deployment
Network segmentation using NSGs
Controlled access through OCI IAM policies
Service Gateway usage for private OCI service communication
Infrastructure managed through code and version control

When using this project, sensitive information such as OCI credentials, API keys, and Terraform variable files should not be committed to source control.

Recommended files to exclude from Git repositories include:

.terraform/
*.tfstate
*.tfstate.backup
terraform.tfvars
*.pem
Use Case

This project serves as the foundational infrastructure layer for database development environments hosted in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. It provides the networking, security, and access management components required before deploying application servers, databases, monitoring solutions, or other platform services.

Author
Reasad Amin Shamrat
